---
label: 3. Next Steps
order: 100
icon: ":three:"
---

## Change Your Server Nickname
Change your Server Nickname to **`<Name of Character> (<Race> <Class>)`**.

> Examples:
> - Myrdin (Halfling Ranger) 
> - Panadol (Drow Warlock)

## Upload Your Character Sheet
- Click "Share" button in the header of your character sheet to get the shareable link. 
- In `#character-sheets`, replace the `<link>` with the link of your character sheet.

```
!import <link>
```

If you have used standard array or point buy, declare so after you upload your sheet. 

You DO NOT need to wait for your sheet to be approved.

Once you've uploaded your sheet to `#character-sheets`, you will be automatically granted **Newbie** and **Level 1** roles, and the rest of the server should now be visible. If for some reason the bot fails, send a message to `#⁠server-questions`, and a staff member will grant you the roles.

### Character Creation Phase

After you create your character and before the character attends a DM event, the character is considered to be in the character creation phase. During this time, you may change parts of the character as many times as you want. Following rules apply:

> - You must keep all rolled results. If you have rolled the stats, you cannot switch back to Standard Array or Point Buy.
> - If you chose Standard Array or Point buy as the Ability Score generation method, you may switch to rolling for stats. Please note, once you rolled the stats, you must use them.
> - You may not switch between choosing starting equipment and rolling for gold.
> - You may not reroll stats / gold / hp.

> - If any of the starting equipment were sold and you need to switch them, retcon the transaction before doing so.
> - Keep RPXP and Experience counter values.

> - You are still in the character creation phase after gaining XP from Combat Training DTD, an approved RPXP claim, or Avrae Tutorial XP.

!!!warning 
Once your character participates in a DM event, all rebuilds must be submitted for review in `#rebuild-retire-log`, following the rules in the pin.
!!!

## Start Playing

### 3. Set Up Your Character for the Server
> - There are additional setups that are necessary for your character to be living in DnD World. Please follow the steps in ⁠[How to Start Playing](/start-playing/start-playing/)

### 4. Learn How to Earn RPXP and XP
> RPXP is the experience point you get from roleplaying. After you participate in a DM event you can transfer RPXP and turn it into XP. 
> - More details and additional information in [How to Earn XP](/start-playing/earn-xp/)

### :icon-question:. Ask questions!
> `⁠#beginner-help`

#roleplay-rules

## Beyond 1st Level

### Gaining a Level

> - [How to Earn XP](/start-playing/earn-xp/) lists all the ways you can gain XP. Please note that RPXP is separate from XP. Full details can be found in the channel.
> - Once you updated the character sheet, run `!update` and `!level` in [!badge icon="/images/discord-mark-blue.svg" variant="info" text="#bot-dump"](https://discord.com/channels/512870694883950598/519131071502221313). You may need to set the subclass manually by running `!level [class] [subclass]`.
> - Once your character gains a level, make sure to change your reacts in `#roles` in order to receive the game post pings for the new level.
> - Please note, "Changing Your Subclass" section from Tasha's Cauldron of Everything (TCoE) is not allowed. You may change the subclass of a character following the rebuild rules in `#rebuild-retire-log`.

### HP

> At 1st level, as per RAW you take max of your hit die, determined by your class, and add your Constitution modifier.

> We recommend that you choose **fixed value HP** as described in PHB. You may choose to roll HP following the instructions pinned in `#⁠official-character-rolls`.

### Multiclass

> You are allowed to multiclass when you level up, as long as you meet the standard stat prerequisites.

### ASI/Feat

> You are allowed to take a feat instead of taking Ability Score Improvement (ASI), when the class gives you the option at certain levels.

### Rebuild

> Please refer to `#rebuild-retire-log` pin for full details on rebuild.

### Character Death / Retire

> - Character death needs to be recorded in `#list-of-the-fallen`. Full details on how to make the record, what to do next, and information on Cushion Rule can be found in the channel pin.
> - You may retire your character if they are at least Level 4 and it has been at least 1 month since your last retire. Full details on retire and Cushion Rule can be found in `#rebuild-retire-log` channel pin.

==- :beginner: New to D&D?
Don't roll for HP. Sticking to fixed HP is a safer option.

For your ASI, you generally want to max out your primary stat. Some people prefer doing that with their later ASIs to get a feat earlier, but for now, putting your first ASI into your primary stat is a safe choice.

Save multiclassing for when you are more experienced. Putting together a level plan that is both better than monoclass and fun to play throughout requires a bit of experience and planning. For now, it is best to just get used to the game.

Before you hit Level 5, consider whether you would like to Rebuild your character before their build is locked in. You can avoid participating in games until you are sure, maybe even start building your second character!
===