---
label: Backstory Guide
order: 5
icon: ":four:"
---

## What is a backstory?
> Addresses those new to D&D the role of a backstory, and explains the difference from background. Especially important if we ever adopt 5.5e. We currently have a skeleton of this info for the `!library` doc.

and are for adding personality and different aspects to your character. Bring them to life! The personality traits, characteristics, etc. lists are providing you with examples. You do not need to choose from the tables. 
> - Faith: Check out ⁠pantheon for the gods of Icris. 
> - Lifestyle: This is handled in the DW server, not in D&D Beyond. Continue following the Getting Started guides to learn more. 
> 

## Making a backstory for the server
> Copy pasted from <#660382373493604362>. Briefly explains West Marches and how this affects backstory. Content is also in the `!library` doc.

- It is important to note that your character's backstory will most likely not be explored here. Hence, the backstory is primarily for your roleplay.

### Level 1 Character in a Collaborative Story

> - What you did in your backstory must make sense for a Level 1 character's capabilities. For example, you cannot be famous or notorious at the world-wide scale, or have committed mass slaughter.
> - Beware of Chosen One Syndrome. You are a part of the collaborative storytelling, not the main character of a novel.
> 
> - Your backstory cannot contain any non-family-friendly topics such as sexual assault of any degree, slavery, pedophilia, etc. When in doubt, err on the side of caution, or in case you are unsure, send a message to `@FanMail` for confirmation.

### World Setting

> - The world map and general world setting information can be found in [About Us](/index/
> - If you have any lore questions for your backstory, message @FanMail with the specific question and intention.
> - The pantheon of Icris can be found in [!badge icon="/images/discord-mark-blue.svg" variant="info" text="#pantheon"](https://discord.com/channels/512870694883950598/535362293144223744), and the archdevils can be found in [!badge icon="/images/discord-mark-blue.svg" variant="info" text="#hell-inc"](https://discord.com/channels/512870694883950598/640104532042317834).
>   - If you are a cleric, you must follow god(s) from the Icris pantheon.
>    - Alternatively, you can follow the Eodian faith system as set out [!badge icon="link-external" variant="info" text="here"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EBgQscpqcqAV8lPyDl1sc8HBP83vnN4aw9ZBg9ZO5fk/).
>   - You cannot follow a god from another pantheon (e.g. Forgotten Realms) and you cannot invent your own god or worship an illusory god.
> - For more DnD World lore, please visit our World Anvil page: <https://www.worldanvil.com/w/icris-dnd-world>
>   - You can also find new lore about other continents [!badge icon="link-external" variant="info" text="here"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EBgQscpqcqAV8lPyDl1sc8HBP83vnN4aw9ZBg9ZO5fk/)
> - For characters that intend to originate from planes other than the Feywild or Shadowfell, please message @FanMail for approval. 

### Please Avoid

> - ⚠️ No guns or firearm lookalikes exist in this world. No sci-fi, no references to other franchises, no urban technology, no references to events on Earth.
> - Your backstory should take place within our world; you cannot be transported or “isekai-ed” from an alternate universe or IRL.
> - You cannot be in a current/former position of royalty, e.g. King/Queen, Prince/Princess.
> - Your backstory cannot be based off religious text such as the Bible, or directly pulled from a video game/book series/franchise. 
> - Your backstory cannot have far-fetched concepts like being frozen in time, or contain powerful or legendary magic items.
> 
> - It is optional, but recommended, that you write your backstory in `#character-biopic`.

## Coming up with your character concept
> Brief explanation ala PHB about how to decide what character to make. Could copy paste the class descriptions from <#513456297581084692>. 

**Artificer.** 

**Barbarian.** 

**Bard.** 

**Cleric.** 

**Druid.** 

**Fighter.** 

**Monk.** 

**Paladin.** 

**Ranger.** 

**Rogue.** 

**Sorcerer.** 

**Warlock.** 

**Wizard.** 
