---
label: New to D&D
order: 9
icon: ":beginner:"
---

<style>
h1:before { content: "🔰 " }
</style> 

# New to D&D

## What is D&D?

D&D is a tabletop roleplaying game (TTRPG) game  published by Wizards of the Coast (WOTC). Each session is typically played with one DM and a party of four-five players. The game is a mixture of freeform roleplay (RP), combat, and exploration.

## How is D&D played online?

There are a variety of ways to play D&D online. Over here, we use text-based roleplay on Discord, and dice are rolled using the Avrae bot. This is paired with maps on Google Sheets or Owlbear Rodeo.

!!!What about physical dice?
While we appreciate the click-clacks in-person, all our rolls are done using Avrae to prevent cheating.
!!!

## What is West Marches/Living World D&D?

We get the question *"How can I join a campaign?"* quite often. On our server, we don't run campaigns; instead, we run pick-up games where characters carry over between sessions.

Broadly speaking, our server is a living world, which is a unique format of D&D similar to a MMORPG. All characters live in a shared world, and even when you are not in games, you can still interact with other player characters. 

To accommodate our size, games are West Marches style with some changes. In West Marches, there are multiple DMs and many players. Rather than having to stick to weekly sessions and a consistent party, games are instead held whenever a DM has time. 

**If you are interested, are free at that time, and have a character within that level range, go ahead and sign-up.** The DM will then pick a party from the sign-ups. These sessions are typically self-contained one-shots, and there is no overarching plot. This reduces the commitment needed, especially if you just want to try the game.

!!!Not Your Style?
We encourage you to give us a try! Many people who initially joined for campaigns ended up enjoying the atmosphere and stayed on for years. However, if you are *only* looking for traditional campaign-style games, then you are welcome to try the following avenues:

- [Our Partner Servers](partner-servers.md)
- [The r/LFG subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/lfg/)
- [The official Dungeons & Dragons server](https://discord.gg/dnd)

We kindly ask that you do not advertise your campaigns on our server.
!!!

## How Were You Introduced to D&D?

Over the years, we have encountered a wide variety of players from all sorts of backgrounds. However, sometimes this leads to mismanaged expectations on how we personally play D&D. As such, we have compiled this helpful list of common scenarios for you:

### Campaign with Family & Friends
If you've already played D&D before, you may feel like you already have a grasp on D&D's mechanics. However, every 

### Memes
Everyone loves a good meme, but it is important to understand that memes only represent one part of the D&D experience. In many cases, they are exaggerated for comedic effect; you probably *won't* be in a party with a witch on a tricycle. As our server lasts up till Level 20, we generally don't encourage you to create joke characters that would only be funny for a few sessions. 

### Streams/Podcasts (e.g. Critical Role or Dimension 20)
Streams and podcasts like CR or D20 are popular ways people get introduced to the game. However, it is vital to note that their actors are professionals, and Matt Mercer is a master worldbuilder. As such, you should not expect yourself, other players, or the DM to roleplay to their standard.

!!!Take Note: Critical Role content is considered Homebrew here
We use a modified version of Blood Hunter. For full list of sources, please see [here](cc-rules.md)
!!!

### Playing Video Games (e.g. Baldur's Gate 3)

RPGs such as Baldur's Gate 3 has greatly helped expand the accessibility of D&D. While BG3 is quite faithful to the overall experience, Larian Studios has made [their own changes](https://bg3.wiki/wiki/D%26D_5e_rule_changes) to the game.

In addition, as a video game, BG3 has several details that don't translate to the tabletop format. The key difference is that you play collaboratively with your party. No one person is the main character, and you are expected to work with your team to overcome challenges. It is frowned upon to take control of their actions.

Generally, we ask that you don't rip ideas from video games characters for your D&D character. 

### TV Shows (e.g. Stranger Things)

In Stranger Things, the characters play 


## How to Learn D&D

!!!I can play anything I want?


The most comprehensive way to learn D&D is to start with the [Basic Rules (2014)](http://media.wizards.com/2018/dnd/downloads/DnD_BasicRules_2018.pdf). It is not necessary to read everything:

- Races: You may skip to those you are interested in
- Classes: You may skip to those you are interested in
 The Ability Scores and Combat sections are must-reads, while you should 
 - The Rules of Magic/Spellcasting: Only necessary if you play a spellcasting class. You can skip if you are starting as a Barbarian, Fighter, Monk
 - Dungeon Master Tools: Unnecessary, skip.

It is only important that you eventually familiarize yourself with your Character Sheet, so that you can play games smoothly. Don't worry, this will come with time.

## What does X mean?

Below is a list of common D&D lingo that's not otherwise explained in the above document. For server-specific lingo, please check out [here](resources.md).

- Homebrew: Fan-created features or changes made to the official rules. 
- Sourcebook: Any official book released by Wizards of the Coast that expands on the game rules and features.